Who that's been all out of information up until now.
Luckily for us I'd say the hard part is over once we've got the DOM contd loaded.
The next step is simple.
We build the render tree which has all the information that we need from the DOM and the CSM how to
construct the page from there the browser figures out the layout and the positioning of each one of
these elements.
And then finally paints it and we have the Load event that happens.
Now you see over here there's one more step.
Step number eight which is javascript and this is probably things that you're most familiar with if
Javascript events change any part of the page.
It causes a redraw of the render tree and it forces us to go through the lay out and paint again.
And that's what web apps are right.
Users interact with the page and the java script constantly modifies the page by cycling through the
render tree layout and paint.
And we keep going in a circle here.
Now modern browsers are smart enough to only conduct a partial redraw but we can't rely on this being
efficient or performant.
So it's our job to make that efficient.
So looking at this it looks like we definitely do want to minimize DOM manipulation and not get too
carried away.
Having said that obviously javascript is largely event based on the client side and we wanted to manipulate
our Don.
So it's going to do that but we just have to limit the under-perform and defects of good cause with
it.
Now let's recap one more time what we've learned with the critical render path we've learned how to
optimize each one of these files in that critical render path so that our browsers can display the web
page or web app as soon as possible for the user.
We also should have a better understanding of this silly little animation that I made at the beginning
of the section.
We now understand how a shemale and C Ss get downloaded.
We also know how the construction of the DOM tree and the CSSA arm is being constructed.
We also know that javascript gets downloaded and then acts upon those two trees.
And then finally using both of those we're able to construct the render tree.
And then finally while not finally and then we get the lay out figure out their layout from the render
tree we paint pixels on the screen and then finally we have our Web page displayed.
And oh yeah we also have our little image that gets loaded in the background.
Q That's a lot of work.
Pretty impressive for browsers.
Now I'm going to leave some of those files that are used in these videos so you can practice and test
different things out.
Keep in mind that different browsers behave differently and browsers are always trying to improve performance.
Things may change.
For example chrome right now is working on having javascript not be parser blocking and rendering in
the background so keep that in mind as you explore some of those different topics that we practiced
in these videos.
Have fun and I'll see in the next video by.